Rewamp docs content (#296)
api3dao/api3-docs: docs/curation/roles-and-operations.md

---
title: Roles and operations
pageHeader: Curation
outline: deep
---

<PageHeader/>

# Roles and operations

All Api3 vaults share the same role structure and operational setup.

## Roles

| Role      | Held by              |
| --------- | -------------------- |
| Owner     | Api3 DAO Multisig    |
| Curator   | Api3 DAO Multisig    |
| Allocator | Api3 DAO Multisig    |
| Guardian  | Api3 monitoring team |

The Api3 DAO Multisig holds the owner, curator, and allocator roles, consolidating governance and operational control under a single entity.

The guardian role is operated by the Api3 monitoring team, who can revoke pending actions in case of misconfiguration.

> The monitoring team also maintains an emergency fund for manual liquidations in the event that automated liquidation bots fail.

Reviewer: Should we mention about size of funds held or address of this account?

Author: No.

## Vault architecture

All Api3 vaults follow a two-layer architecture:

```
Depositor → V2 Vault → V1 Vault → Morpho Markets
```

1. **V2 Vault** — The user-facing vault where depositors supply USDC and receive vault shares. Configured with the Api3 role structure and governance controls described above.

2. **V1 Vault** — The intermediary vault that executes the actual market allocations. The V1 vault holds two allocators:

>    - The **Morpho Public Allocator**, which enables permissionless reallocation to improve liquidity across markets.

Reviewer 2: Maybe it's worth a quick sentence or two about what this does/how it works?

Author: It will be gone soon with the Morpho requirement to use v2 adapter directly, so not really worth it. It's also best to look into Morpho docs for this kind iof stuff anyway.

>    - An **Api3 automated bot** that rebalances allocations to maintain reasonable APY across all enabled markets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - An **Api3 automated bot** that rebalances allocations to maintain a competitive APY across all enabled markets.
```

The owner of the V1 vault is also the Api3 DAO Multisig. The 5% performance fee is charged at this layer (see [Fees](/curation/#fees)).

## Allocation and rebalancing

Capital allocation across markets is automated.
The Api3 allocation bot monitors market conditions and rebalances the vault's positions to maintain target utilization and competitive APY.
The Morpho Public Allocator complements this by enabling permissionless reallocation when liquidity is needed.

> A portion of vault deposits is kept idle to ensure depositors can withdraw without delays.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A portion of vault deposits is kept unallocated to ensure depositors can withdraw without delays.
```
